Title: SECO-ASSIST Excellence of Science Project (F.R.S.-FNRS and FWO-Vlaanderen)
Date: 2018-01-01

*Automated Assistance for Developing Software in Ecosystems of the Future.*

Software pervades every aspect of human life. Modern civilisation relies on software at an increasing pace, and society needs to adapt itself to become more resilient against the negative sides of the digital era. Software ecosystems form large socio-technical networks of technical and social components that interact with each other on top of common software and hardware platforms. Well-known software ecosystems are operating system distributions like Linux and Android, package dependency networks like npm for JavaScript and CRAN for the popular statistical computing environment R, and the OSCAR digital health ecosystem for Electronic Medical Records. SECO-ASSIST will pave the way by providing novel automated techniques to coordinate the numerous contributors and contributions to such ecosystems as effectively as possible, thereby meeting the inherent challenges of future software ecosystems.

The <a href="https://secoassist.github.io/">SECO-ASSIST</a> project consortium coordinated by UMONS and is lead by 4 Belgian principal investigators: Tom Mens (UMONS), Serge Demeyer (UAntwerpen), Coen De Roover (Vrije Universiteit Brussel) and Anthony Cleve (UNAMUR). These seasoned software engineers are research authorities in software evolution, software testing, static program analysis and database usage. Their complementary expertise will permit a scientific breakthrough that will nurture the software ecosystems of the future.
