Title: Energy-Optimal Configurations for Single-Node HPC Applications

Author: Vitor Ramos, doctorant au servie SEMI de la Faculté Polytechnique

Tags: HPC, Energy-Optimal, Single-Node

Energy efficiency is a growing concern for modern computing, especially for HPC due to operational costs and the environmental impact, considering that processors have an important role in this energy consumption. In this presentation, we show a methodology developed to find energy-optimal frequency and number of active cores to run single-node HPC applications using an application-agnostic power model of the architecture and an architecture-aware performance model of the application. We characterize the application performance using Support Vector Regression. Besides that, the power consumption is estimated by modeling CMOS dynamic and static power without knowledge of the application. So, The energy-optimal configuration is estimated by minimizing the product these two models outcomes, the power model and the performance model. Then, the final model can be used to find better frequency and number of cores to aim energy efficiency application execution. Results were obtained for four PARSEC applications and, with five different inputs shows that the proposed approach used substantially less energy when compared to the default Linux energy saving sh, in best cases and worst cases.

Title: : DNNs Hardware Implementation based on FPGA

Author: Tareck Belabed, doctorant au servie SEMI de la Faculté Polytechnique

Tags: HPC, FPGA

In recent years, deep neural networks (DNNs) have emerged as the state of the art in terms of
classification performance for many different tasks. Unfortunately, the latter consumes a lot of energy due to their large number of compute operators, which can complicate its implementation in embedded systems. For this, many recent researches show that it is possible to obtain high-speed gains with the use of FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array) while maintaining a reasonable power consumption. Our work focuses on the implementation of Stacked Sparse Autoencoder in embedded systems, in particular, the Zynq Xilinx SoC, which combines a dual-core ARM processor and FPGA in one chip.